README.md, before:

# Logitech Litra

This driver allows you to control USB-connected Logitech Litra lights using a CLI or from JavaScript code.

The following Logitech Litra devices are supported:

* [Logitech Litra Glow](https://www.logitech.com/en-gb/products/lighting/litra-glow.946-000002.html)
* [Logitech Litra Beam](https://www.logitech.com/en-gb/products/lighting/litra-beam.946-000007.html) 
* [Logitech Litra Beam LX](https://www.logitechg.com/en-gb/products/cameras-lighting/litra-beam-lx-led-light.946-000015.html?&utm_source=Google&utm_medium=Paid-Search&utm_campaign=Dialect_FY24_Q3_GBR_GA_G_DTX-LogiG-Creator_Google_na&gad_source=1&gclid=CjwKCAiAp5qsBhAPEiwAP0qeJs7jOdlBu8DCsEoOFt1_BK1HLABI0l2jglDweTnNDddt5neXm_vpyRoCic4QAvD_BwE)

With this driver, you can:

- Turn your light on and off
- Check if the light is on or off
- Set and get the brightness of your light
- Set and get the temperature of your light

## Compatibility

This library:

* only works with Litra devices connected via USB. Devices connected via Bluetooth are not supported.
* is only tested on macOS Monterey (12.5) and Windows 11. It's powered by [`node-hid`](https://github.com/node-hid/node-hid), which is compatible with other macOS versions, Windows and Linux, so it would be expected to work there too, but your mileage may vary 🙏

## Using as a command line tool

Make sure you have Node.js available on your machine, and then install the package with `npm install -g litra`.

With the package installed:

- Use the `litra-on`, `litra-off` and `litra-toggle` commands to turn your light on and off.
- Use the `litra-brightness` command to set your Litra's brightness to a percentage of its maximum (e.g. `litra-brightness 90`).
- Use the `litra-brightness-lm` command to get or set your Litra's brightness to a value in Lumen (e.g. `litra-brightness 250`).
- Use the `litra-temperature-k` command to get or set your Litra's temperature to a value in Kelvin (e.g. `litra-temperature-k 6500`).

All of the these commands support a `--serial-number`/`-s` argument to specify the serial number of the device you want to target. If you only have one Litra device, you can omit this argument. If you have multiple devices, we recommend specifying it. If it isn't specified, the "first" device will be picked, but this isn't guaranteed to be stable between command runs.

You can also use:

- `litra-devices` to list Litra devices connected to your machine, including in JSON format with `--json`
- `litra-identify` to interactively identify the serial numbers of your Litra devices, if you have multiple connected

Each CLI command can also be called with `--help` for more detailed documentation.

## Using as a JavaScript library

### Installation

Simply add the `litra` Node.js package to your `package.json` and install it:

```sh
npm install --save litra
```

### Usage

#### Checking if a Litra device is plugged in

The `findDevice` function checks your computer to find whether a Logitech Litra device is plugged in.

If it is, it returns an object representing the device, which you can pass into other function. If it isn't, it returns `null`.

```js
import { findDevice } from 'litra';

const device = findDevice();

if (device) {
  console.log(`Found a ${device.type} device connected`);

  // Do something
} else {
  // Blow up
}
```

If you're a _huge_ fan of Litra devices and you have multiple plugged in at the same time, use `findDevices` instead:

```js
const devices = findDevices();

if (devices.length > 0) {
  console.log(`Found ${devices.length} devices connected`);
  for (let i = 0; i < devices.length; ++i) {
    console.log(`Device ${i + 1}: ${devices[i].type}`);
  }

  // Do something
} else {
  // Blow up
}
```

#### Turning your Litra device on or off

Find your device with `findDevice`, and then use the simple `turnOn` and `turnOff` functions. They just take one parameter: the device.

You can also use the `isOn` function to check if your device is on/off.

```js
import { findDevice, turnOff, turnOn, isOn } from 'litra';

const device = findDevice();

// Turn your light on, then turn it off again after 5 seconds
if (device) {
  turnOn(device);

  if (isOn(device)) {
    console.log(
      `Your device is now on!`,
    );
  }

  setTimeout(() => {
    turnOff(device)

    if (!isOn(device)) {
      console.log(
        `Your device is now off!`,
      );
    }
  }, 5000));
}
```

Alternatively, you can use the `toggle` function to switch your device on if it's off and vice-versa.

```js
import { findDevice, toggle } from 'litra';

const device = findDevice();

// Turn your light on if it's currently off, and vice-versa
toggle();
```

#### Setting and getting the brightness of your Litra device

You can set the brightness of your Litra device, measured in Lumen, using the `setBrightnessInLumen` function.

To get the current brightness of your device, use the `getBrightnessInLumen` function.

The Litra Glow supports brightness between 20 and 250 Lumen. The Litra Beam and Litra Beam LX support brightness between 20 and 400 Lumen.

You can programatically check what brightness levels are supported by your device. Once you know what brightness levels are supported, you can set the brightness in Lumen. If you try to set a value that isn't allowed by your device, an error will be thrown:

```js
import {
  findDevice,
  getMaximumBrightnessInLumenForDevice,
  getMinimumBrightnessInLumenForDevice,
  setBrightnessInLumen,
} from 'litra';

const device = findDevice();

if (device) {
  const minimumBrightness = getMinimumBrightnessInLumenForDevice(device);
  const maximumBrightness = getMaximumBrightnessInLumenForDevice(device);

  console.log(
    `The minimum allowed brightness is ${minimumBrightness} and the maximum is ${maximumBrightness}`,
  );

  setBrightnessInLumen(device, 150);

  // Will return 150
  getBrightnessInLumen(device);
}
```

You can also set brightness level to a percentage with `setBrightnessPercentage` if you don't want to think in Lumen:

```js
import { findDevice, setBrightnessPercentage } from 'litra';

const device = findDevice();

if (device) {
  setBrightnessPercentage(device, 75);
}
```

#### Setting the temperature of your Litra device

You can set the temperature of your Litra device, measured in Kelvin, using the `setTemperatureInKelvin` function.

The `getTemperatureInKelvin` function can be used to get the current temperature your device is set to.

All supported Litra devices support temperatures which are multiples of 100 between 2700 and 6500 Kelvin (i.e.. 2700, 2800, 2900, etc.).

You can check programatically what temperature levels are supported by your device. Once you know what temperature levels are supported, you can set the temperature in Kelvin. If you try to set a value that isn't allowed by your device, an error will be thrown:

```js
import {
  findDevice,
  getAllowedTemperaturesInKelvinForDevice,
  getMaximumTemperatureInKelvinForDevice,
  getMinimumTemperatureInKelvinForDevice,
  setTemperatureInKelvin,
} from 'litra';

const device = findDevice();

if (device) {
  const minimumTemperature = getMinimumTemperatureInKelvinForDevice(device);
  const maximumTemperature = getMaximumTemperatureInKelvinForDevice(device);
  const allowedTemperatures = getAllowedTemperaturesInKelvinForDevice(device);

  console.log(
    `The minimum allowed temperature is ${minimumTemperature} and the maximum is ${maximumTemperature}`,
  );
  console.log(`The following temperature are allowed: ${allowedTemperatures.join(', ')}`);

  setTemperatureInKelvin(device, 6500);

  // Should return 6500
  getTemeratureInKelvin(device);
}
```

## Using with Raycast

Litra integrates with [Raycast](https://www.raycast.com/) so you can manage your Litra device from the Raycast launcher.

To use the integration, just install this package globally with `npm install -g litra`, add the "Logitech Litra" extension from the [Raycast Store](https://www.raycast.com/timrogers/logitech-litra) (source code [here](https://github.com/timrogers/raycast-logitech-litra)), find the "Manage Devices" command and then follow the instructions to configure the extension.

## Using with Oversight

Litra integrates with [Oversight](https://objective-see.org/products/oversight.html) to allow you to automatically turn your Litra device on or off when your webcam turns on and off. This allows you to be illuminated every time you join a video call!

To use the integration, just point Oversight at the `litra-oversight` CLI command. You can find the path of the binary on Unix machines by running `which litra-oversight` from a terminal after installing this package.

If you have multiple Litra devices, they will all be targeted when `litra-oversight` runs

Commit message:

chore(docs): recommend the new Rust `litra` CLI

README.md, after:

# Logitech Litra

__If you're looking for a command line tool to control your Litra device, I now recommend [my new `litra` CLI](https://github.com/timrogers/litra-rs), written in Rust and available as a single, compiled binary.__ This project is only recommended if you want to manage your Litra device from a JavaScript application. For more information, see the discussion [here](https://github.com/timrogers/litra/discussions/313).

---

This driver allows you to control USB-connected Logitech Litra lights using a CLI or from JavaScript code.

The following Logitech Litra devices are supported:

* [Logitech Litra Glow](https://www.logitech.com/en-gb/products/lighting/litra-glow.946-000002.html)
* [Logitech Litra Beam](https://www.logitech.com/en-gb/products/lighting/litra-beam.946-000007.html) 
* [Logitech Litra Beam LX](https://www.logitechg.com/en-gb/products/cameras-lighting/litra-beam-lx-led-light.946-000015.html?&utm_source=Google&utm_medium=Paid-Search&utm_campaign=Dialect_FY24_Q3_GBR_GA_G_DTX-LogiG-Creator_Google_na&gad_source=1&gclid=CjwKCAiAp5qsBhAPEiwAP0qeJs7jOdlBu8DCsEoOFt1_BK1HLABI0l2jglDweTnNDddt5neXm_vpyRoCic4QAvD_BwE)

With this driver, you can:

- Turn your light on and off
- Check if the light is on or off
- Set and get the brightness of your light
- Set and get the temperature of your light

## Compatibility

This library:

* only works with Litra devices connected via USB. Devices connected via Bluetooth are not supported.
* is only tested on macOS Monterey (12.5) and Windows 11. It's powered by [`node-hid`](https://github.com/node-hid/node-hid), which is compatible with other macOS versions, Windows and Linux, so it would be expected to work there too, but your mileage may vary 🙏

## Using as a command line tool

Make sure you have Node.js available on your machine, and then install the package with `npm install -g litra`.

With the package installed:

- Use the `litra-on`, `litra-off` and `litra-toggle` commands to turn your light on and off.
- Use the `litra-brightness` command to set your Litra's brightness to a percentage of its maximum (e.g. `litra-brightness 90`).
- Use the `litra-brightness-lm` command to get or set your Litra's brightness to a value in Lumen (e.g. `litra-brightness 250`).
- Use the `litra-temperature-k` command to get or set your Litra's temperature to a value in Kelvin (e.g. `litra-temperature-k 6500`).

All of the these commands support a `--serial-number`/`-s` argument to specify the serial number of the device you want to target. If you only have one Litra device, you can omit this argument. If you have multiple devices, we recommend specifying it. If it isn't specified, the "first" device will be picked, but this isn't guaranteed to be stable between command runs.

You can also use:

- `litra-devices` to list Litra devices connected to your machine, including in JSON format with `--json`
- `litra-identify` to interactively identify the serial numbers of your Litra devices, if you have multiple connected

Each CLI command can also be called with `--help` for more detailed documentation.

## Using as a JavaScript library

### Installation

Simply add the `litra` Node.js package to your `package.json` and install it:

```sh
npm install --save litra
```

### Usage

#### Checking if a Litra device is plugged in

The `findDevice` function checks your computer to find whether a Logitech Litra device is plugged in.

If it is, it returns an object representing the device, which you can pass into other function. If it isn't, it returns `null`.

```js
import { findDevice } from 'litra';

const device = findDevice();

if (device) {
  console.log(`Found a ${device.type} device connected`);

  // Do something
} else {
  // Blow up
}
```

If you're a _huge_ fan of Litra devices and you have multiple plugged in at the same time, use `findDevices` instead:

```js
const devices = findDevices();

if (devices.length > 0) {
  console.log(`Found ${devices.length} devices connected`);
  for (let i = 0; i < devices.length; ++i) {
    console.log(`Device ${i + 1}: ${devices[i].type}`);
  }

  // Do something
} else {
  // Blow up
}
```

#### Turning your Litra device on or off

Find your device with `findDevice`, and then use the simple `turnOn` and `turnOff` functions. They just take one parameter: the device.

You can also use the `isOn` function to check if your device is on/off.

```js
import { findDevice, turnOff, turnOn, isOn } from 'litra';

const device = findDevice();

// Turn your light on, then turn it off again after 5 seconds
if (device) {
  turnOn(device);

  if (isOn(device)) {
    console.log(
      `Your device is now on!`,
    );
  }

  setTimeout(() => {
    turnOff(device)

    if (!isOn(device)) {
      console.log(
        `Your device is now off!`,
      );
    }
  }, 5000));
}
```

Alternatively, you can use the `toggle` function to switch your device on if it's off and vice-versa.

```js
import { findDevice, toggle } from 'litra';

const device = findDevice();

// Turn your light on if it's currently off, and vice-versa
toggle();
```

#### Setting and getting the brightness of your Litra device

You can set the brightness of your Litra device, measured in Lumen, using the `setBrightnessInLumen` function.

To get the current brightness of your device, use the `getBrightnessInLumen` function.

The Litra Glow supports brightness between 20 and 250 Lumen. The Litra Beam and Litra Beam LX support brightness between 20 and 400 Lumen.

You can programatically check what brightness levels are supported by your device. Once you know what brightness levels are supported, you can set the brightness in Lumen. If you try to set a value that isn't allowed by your device, an error will be thrown:

```js
import {
  findDevice,
  getMaximumBrightnessInLumenForDevice,
  getMinimumBrightnessInLumenForDevice,
  setBrightnessInLumen,
} from 'litra';

const device = findDevice();

if (device) {
  const minimumBrightness = getMinimumBrightnessInLumenForDevice(device);
  const maximumBrightness = getMaximumBrightnessInLumenForDevice(device);

  console.log(
    `The minimum allowed brightness is ${minimumBrightness} and the maximum is ${maximumBrightness}`,
  );

  setBrightnessInLumen(device, 150);

  // Will return 150
  getBrightnessInLumen(device);
}
```

You can also set brightness level to a percentage with `setBrightnessPercentage` if you don't want to think in Lumen:

```js
import { findDevice, setBrightnessPercentage } from 'litra';

const device = findDevice();

if (device) {
  setBrightnessPercentage(device, 75);
}
```

#### Setting the temperature of your Litra device

You can set the temperature of your Litra device, measured in Kelvin, using the `setTemperatureInKelvin` function.

The `getTemperatureInKelvin` function can be used to get the current temperature your device is set to.

All supported Litra devices support temperatures which are multiples of 100 between 2700 and 6500 Kelvin (i.e.. 2700, 2800, 2900, etc.).

You can check programatically what temperature levels are supported by your device. Once you know what temperature levels are supported, you can set the temperature in Kelvin. If you try to set a value that isn't allowed by your device, an error will be thrown:

```js
import {
  findDevice,
  getAllowedTemperaturesInKelvinForDevice,
  getMaximumTemperatureInKelvinForDevice,
  getMinimumTemperatureInKelvinForDevice,
  setTemperatureInKelvin,
} from 'litra';

const device = findDevice();

if (device) {
  const minimumTemperature = getMinimumTemperatureInKelvinForDevice(device);
  const maximumTemperature = getMaximumTemperatureInKelvinForDevice(device);
  const allowedTemperatures = getAllowedTemperaturesInKelvinForDevice(device);

  console.log(
    `The minimum allowed temperature is ${minimumTemperature} and the maximum is ${maximumTemperature}`,
  );
  console.log(`The following temperature are allowed: ${allowedTemperatures.join(', ')}`);

  setTemperatureInKelvin(device, 6500);

  // Should return 6500
  getTemeratureInKelvin(device);
}
```

## Using with Raycast

Litra integrates with [Raycast](https://www.raycast.com/) so you can manage your Litra device from the Raycast launcher.

To use the integration, just install this package globally with `npm install -g litra`, add the "Logitech Litra" extension from the [Raycast Store](https://www.raycast.com/timrogers/logitech-litra) (source code [here](https://github.com/timrogers/raycast-logitech-litra)), find the "Manage Devices" command and then follow the instructions to configure the extension.

## Using with Oversight

Litra integrates with [Oversight](https://objective-see.org/products/oversight.html) to allow you to automatically turn your Litra device on or off when your webcam turns on and off. This allows you to be illuminated every time you join a video call!

To use the integration, just point Oversight at the `litra-oversight` CLI command. You can find the path of the binary on Unix machines by running `which litra-oversight` from a terminal after installing this package.

If you have multiple Litra devices, they will all be targeted when `litra-oversight` runs
